Welcome to Lesson 6 of Module 1 on DBMS
Extensions and Example Data Warehouses. I'm gonna start with an important usage
question about medical data warehouses. What factors inhibit usage of federated
medical data warehouses such as SAFTINet? Lesson 6. Write a conceptual background of data
warehouse of deployed organizations. Provide a context for
detailed skills in other modules. You will learn about a standard
medical data warehouse model and a substantial implementation of the model
to support healthcare researchers. You have three learning
objectives in this lesson. You should understand the scope
of moderate size data warehouses. You should get insight about
development difficulties with cooperation among
independent data providers. You should reflect about
the lack of incentives for voluntary participation by data providers
and usage difficulties by stakeholders. The Observational Medical Outcomes
Partnership, or OMOP, was a public/private partnership to develop and promote
standards for electronic medical records. The primary products of the partnership
were standard vocabulary and a common data model for
observational medical data. Secondary products for data integration procedures, standard
queries to use the data model, and data generation procedures to populate
a data warehouse with simulated data. An active community of users has applied
a documented usage of these products in conferences and publications. The original OMOP investigators have moved
to new projects to promote innovation and usage of medical evidence and
developed an open source tools for observation of medical data. The OMOP common data model
is a constellation schema containing 37 tables with
some free standing tables. Each star in the constellation
contains person and time dimensions. Other dimensions are providers, cohorts, locations, organizations,
care sites and payer plans. Major fact tables are treatments with
drug prescriptions and procedures and occurrences of observations, visits,
conditions, exposures, and deaths. This diagram from the OMOP website, shows the OMOP 5.0 common
data models specification. This specification contains
standard errors for clinical data, healthcare economics, healthcare system,
vocabulary, and derived elements. This diagram shows the tables
in a common data model, although not organized in
a traditional schema diagram. The scalable Architecture for Federated
Translational inquiries Network, knows as SAFTINet, is a substantial implementation
of the OMOP common data model. SAFTINet was developed to support
comparative effectiveness research. In quality improvement research using
data collected from independent providers distributed across geographic regions. SAFTINet provides data integration
tools to transform data from providers in a query portal for
researchers using a data warehouse. The SAFTINet data model is a subset
of the OMOP common data model. SAFTINet contains dimensions for person, provider, organization,
care site, and time. These dimensions are really the fact
tables for visits, conditions, deaths, procedures, and observations. Although the data model seems modest,
lack of incentives for data providers and
data integration difficulties prevented development of a large
subset of the common data model. SAFTINet was developed as a research
project so the tedious details of data integration and the centers for
data providers were difficult to manage. The organizational effort
to establish SAFTINet is at least as much of an achievement
as the data warehouse development. SAFTINet is populated with data
from 14 healthcare organizations. 100 primary care practices,
500 providers and 400,000 patients. Claims data comes from
three different US states. Governance committees were created to
coordinate participation by data providers and uses by researchers. SAFTINet has usage barriers with
approvals by internal review boards and data providers. Lesson 6 presents standards for medical
data warehouses to provide a context or detailed concepts and
skills covering other modules. The observational medical outcomes
partnership, known as OMOP created a standard vocabulary Common Data Model,
data integration procedures, and query suite to support development and medical
data warehouses with observational data. You're encouraged to learn more
details from the OMOP website. The scalable architecture for federated translational inquiries network,
known as SAFTINet. Implemented a subset of the OMOP Common
Data Model to support medical researchers who want access to medical observations
from a diverse collection of providers, patients, and organizations. An answer to the opening question. Internal review boards,
and lack of incentives for data providers inhibit usage of SAFETNET. SAFTINet from a diverse network of
patients, providers, and locations. Due to usage difficulties,
this promise has not been entirely met. Each research project must obtain
clearance by an internal review board. Internal review boards require detailed
justification about data requested and safeguards to meet strict
privacy standards. Data providers lack incentives
to participate in SAFTINet and approve access to data. Research projects using safety net. Can only provide intangible and
long term benefits to data providers. Thus, safety net's impact is more
limited than the Colorado education data warehouse. Although lessons learned from the safety
net experience will be valuable in the future.