Welcome to Lesson five and
Module one on DBMS Extensions and Example Data Warehouses. I'm gonna start with
a definitional question about the type of data warehouse
featured in this lesson. What does the word federated mean for
a data warehouse? Lesson five provides conceptual background
on how data warehouse is deployed in various organizations to provide a context
for detailed skills in other modules. You will learn about
the Colorado Education Data Warehouse, that supports the decision making
about K-12 education in Colorado, USA. You have three learning objectives,
in this lesson. You should understand the scope of
moderate-sized data warehouses. You should get insight about
development difficulties with cooperation among data providers
from moderate-sized data warehouses. You should reflect about mandatory
participation by data providers in wide uses by stakeholders. The Colorado education data warehouse
was developed in response to public concern and related legislation about accountability
in student growth in K-12 education. In Colorado, a 1997 law required an adult
accountability systems for K-12 education. This law was extended in 2004 and 2007 to measure student growth, not just
student achievement at a point in time. The original education data warehouse was
developed beginning in 2002 to support education accountability. The first major extension
performed 2007 to 2009 with a budget of
approximately 6.7 million. Develop web portals for
public and private usage. And extended the scope of the data
warehouse to measure student growth. The second major extension in 2013
increased the scope with preschool and career data and supported more
efficient data transfer from school districts to the data warehouse. Colorado SchoolView is a public/private
portal that uses the education data warehouse. Schoolview supports visual analysis of
student growth on standardized tests for all Colorado school districts. Users can compare median students growth
in achievement in reading, writing, and math by school as depicted
in this snapshot. Schools are classified into four
quadrants by achievement and growth level such as higher achievement and
higher growth in the top right quadrant. In addition, users can search on the
dimensions of student group, grade, and ethnicity, as well as
rolling up school districts. This snapshot displays visual results for
the student group dimension. By selecting a bubble display users can drill down to the individual
school member value. SchoolView provides a map interface in
addition to standard searching tools for selecting schools and school districts. The Colorado education data warehouse
uses a federated architecture with mandatory participation by data
providers, mostly school districts. Colorado has 178 school districts so the number of data sources provided
by school districts is large. This diagram shows other data sources
provided by higher education, public safety, corrections, early
childhood development and human services. After extraction, transformations are performed including
generation of unique identifiers. The primary measure is
a standardized test score. Students take standardized tests once
per year typically in the second half of the school year. Standardized test scores are augmented
with data from school districts about student grades and
demographic attributes. Web portals provide reporting
to stakeholders, public and private, local, state and national. The data model for the education data warehouse is a complex
collection of nine constellation schemas. The constellation schemas contain 94
dimension tables, and 32 fact tables. The fact tables have some
level of denormalization. So fact tables contain both key and code
values instead of just of the key values. The constellation schemas have
some level of snowflaking as 10 dimension tables are referenced
in other dimension tables. The schema diagram uses nine pages
in Microsoft Visio Professional. With each page containing
the constellation schema, with many connections among fact and
dimension tables. The education data
warehouse is modest size, compared to enterprise data
warehouses of major corporations. The total size of the education data
warehouse is about 270 gigabytes. The fact tables have
about 200 million rows. With 1.6 million rows added per
year to the major fact table for standardized test results. The standardized test schema
contains a fact table for standardized test scores, along with
connections of 27 dimension tables. This diagram shows a simplified
representation of the schema. The fact table contains
semi-additive measures. A number of points, percentage points,
scaled score, and growth percentile for each part of a standardized test. Most dimension tables contain flat
dimensions, typically a code value. For example dimension tables for
ethnicity, homeless, migrant status, and gifted contain a single column. Some dimension tables contain hierarchical
dimensions and multiple attributes. For example, the school dimension
has location columns that form hierarchical dimensions and
other columns comprising flat dimensions. Each dimension table uses two
data columns, beginning and effective dates,
to provide historical integrity. Lesson five presented a modest size
data warehouse to provide context for detailed concepts and
skills covered in other modules. The education data warehouse has
evolved over more than ten years under several legislative mandates. The development effort required
coordination among many areas of state and local government in Colorado, USA. The operation of the data warehouse
involved many new policies for data quality. In this lesson, you were provided
an overview of the SchoolView website for reporting about student performance and
growth. Along with the design of
the education data warehouse. You are encouraged to use the public
part of the SchoolView website to explore the reporting features. An answer to the opening question. A federation involves an alliance among
members surrendering some authority to essential body or maintaining some
level of authority for members. A federated data warehouse involves
cooperation from independent organizations. School districts in the Colorado
education data warehouse. Participation of Colorado education data
warehouses is mandated by law in Colorado. Although state funding was
provided to defer costs. The benefits are intangible especially for
school districts. Without mandatory participation, federated data warehouses can be difficult
to develop and maintain over time.