Welcome to lesson two of module
one on DBMS Extensions and Example Data Warehouses. This lesson provides an overview
of the topics, assessments, and software requirements. You should reflect on this lesson as you
work through the details of this course. Through this lesson, you should
understand the nature of the topics and assessments, as well as
the specific software requirements. The most important part of this module
is to install and configure the Oracle software, if you do not have access
to an external Oracle server. The course topics are focused on important
artifacts that you will learn and manipulate. The first part of the course is
a conceptual focus, with several example data warehouses presented,
to provide a context for other modules. The second part of the course emphasizes
an extension to the group by clause for subtotal operators, important for
analysis of data cubes. The third part of the course covers
extensions to the SQL select statement for analytic functions, important for
business intelligence analysis. The fourth part of the course provides
details about summary data management involving materialized views. The fifth part of the course
covers data governance and other important data
administration topics. This diagram indicates more topic
detail in the flow of topics. The course is organized into five modules, with lessons covering
the details of each module. You can keep this diagram in mind as you
work through the details of the course, so that you maintain perspective
on your progress. The first module has a conceptual focus
with quizzes and software installation. The next three modules have a skill focus,
with an emphasis on query formulation using subtotal operators, analytic
functions, and materialized views. The last module has a conceptual focus
with coverage of big data impacts, physical data warehouse design,
and data governance. Since the course is problem and skill oriented, the major
assessments come from assignments. In modules two, three, and four you have assignments that
demonstrate your mastery of skills. You'll write SQL statements to
implement each problem statement. Assignments in modules two and
three involve query formulation using new parts of the SQL select statement for
subtotal operators and analytic functions. The assignment module four involves
statements to create materialized views and then rewrite select statements
to use materialized views. Each assignment has a similar
assessment approach. You will take a detailed quiz
covering the details of each problem. In addition, you will submit screen
snapshots to demonstrate execution of each SQL statement. You can study practice problems
in each module to prepare you for the graded assignments. For conceptual material covered in each
module, you will take a graded quiz. The graded quizzes for modules one and five will be more detailed as these
modules do not have assignments. Assignments in modules two, three, and four involve access to an Oracle Server,
either local or remote. Although the SQL standard contains details
about subtotal operators, analytic functions, and materialized views, the
details differ substantially across DBMSs. Thus, it is necessary to use one
database product in this course. Oracle is an industry leader in
data warehouse technology, so it is an excellent product to
learn about these SQL extensions. Module one contains a lesson with
substantial details about installing and configuring an Oracle server. In addition, discussions had
helpful comments from learning about installing and
configuring an Oracle server. If you have access to an external local
server, perhaps through an employer, you should not need to install and
configure a local Oracle server. You can use any client providing
access to an Oracle server, although I recommend use
the Oracle SQL developer client. This course provides a unified coverage of
concepts, query formulation skills, and SQL statement details for relational
database support of data warehouses. You also learn about important data
warehouse administration topics, including big data impact, physical data
warehouse design, and data governance. You will perform assignments to master
skills in query formulation and materialized view usage. You must write Oracle SQL statements for
each assignment, so you need access to an Oracle server and
client. Most of your learning will occur through
your work on practice problems and graded assignments. Your work in this course will extend the
foundation, provided in the second course in the specialization, for
your journey towards a challenging and rewarding career as a data warehouse or
business intelligence professional.