Welcome to Lesson 1 of Module
5 on Physical Design and Governance of Data Warehouses. Let's have some fun learning about
bitmaps and data warehouse appliances. I'm going to start with
an important conceptual question that I want you to think
about throughout this lesson. What are the differences between
data warehouse appliances and data warehouse cloud solutions? Module five finishes the course with
a return to conceptual material. About physical design technologies and
data governance practices. Lesson one covers basic
storage architectures and important indexing technique in packaging
of data warehouse technology solutions. The coverage in this lesson is conceptual,
so your learning should readily apply across
enterpriseDB messes and data warehouses. You have three learning
objectives in this lesson. You should compare and
contrast basic physical architectures for implementing data warehouses. You should explain components of a bitmap
join index, an important storage structure for efficient processing
of data warehouse queries. Finally, you should explain features
of data warehouse appliances. Important packaging of hardware and
software components by by DMS vendors. Several storage technologies have been
developed to provide multi-dimensional data capabilities. The storage technologies support online
analytic processing, or OLAP for short. A generic name, applied to business
intelligence capabilities, for data cubes. Multidimensional OLAP, or MOLAP,
the original storage architecture for data warehouses,
directly manipulates stored data cubes. MOLAP systems provide high performance,
because of optimization for queries, using precomputed data cubes. Even with techniques to deal with sparsity Molap engines can be overwhelmed
by the size of data cubes. This data explosion problem limits the
size of data in cubes that Molap engines can manipulate. In a relational Olap, or
Rolap approach data cubes are dynamically constructed from fact and dimension tables
as well as from materialized views. Typically only a subset of
a data cube must be constructed as specified in a user's query. ROLLUP provides a number of
well-developed storage and optimization technologies of parallel
query execution and partitioning as well as data warehouse specific technologies
for materialized view processing. Because of tradeoffs between MOLAP and
ROLAP, hybrid OLAP, or HOLAP, has been developed
to combine ROLAP and MOLAP. HOLAP allows a data warehouse to be
divided between relational storage of fact and dimension tables in multi-dimensional
storage of summary data cubes. A whole app system can combine data
from the rollups managed data and the MOLAP managed data. Despite the conceptual appeal of HOLAP,
complexity limits its usage with a DBS vendor required to provide
two storage engines, and processing to combine storage engines. Indexes support efficient query response
with overhead for database modifications. A bitmap index supports
fast query response for columns with relatively few values, such
as province name and tax filing status. Bitmap indexes require
considerable overhead to update. So Bitmap Indexes are much better for data
warehouses than operational databases. A Bitmap contains a string of bits that
is zero one values with one bit for each row or table. In this example, the first bit position containing one
indicates that the first row contains USA. The second bit position containing the 1
indicates the second row contains USA, and the third bit position
containing a 0 value indicates the third row
does not contain USA. The DB Mesh storage engine
provides an efficient way to convert a position in a bitmap
into a physical address of a row. Let's look at sample Bitmap indexes
to clarify your understanding. These tables depict a Bitmap column
index for a sample SSCustomer table. The to the Bitmap is 12 positions because there are 12 rows in
a sample SSCustomer table. For the first index row you should
verify that the rows one, two, five, eight and 12 of the SSCustomer table
have USA for the cust country value. If a query contains a condition on
cust country equal USA the storage engine can use the bitmap index to provide
efficient access to the SSCustomer table. For data warehouse queries, bitmap join
indexes can be especially useful for star queries involving a fact table and
related dimensional tables. A join bitmap index can be defined for
a join column such as cusnum or a non-join column such as cuscountry. This tables depict a bitmap join index for
the cust country column in the SSCustomer table to related
rows in a sample SS sales table. The length of the bitmap is 24 bits because there are 24 rows in
the sample SSSales table. A one value in a bit map. Indicates that a parent row
containing the column value joins with a child table in
a specified bit position. For example, a 1 in the first bit position
of the USA row of the join index, means that an SSCustomer
row with a USA value joins with the first row
of the SSSales table. Enterprise DBMSs support fast query
response using bitmap join indexes. Bitmap indexes on multiple columns can
be combined with intersection operation before accessing fact tables. Data warehouse appliances
provide pre-packaged solutions. For data warehouses containing
various storage technologies and optimization methods. A data warehouse appliance is
a combination of hardware and software components for rapid
deployment and transparent operation. The components typically include a DBMS, server, hardware,
storage devices in an operating system. Early appliances emphasize
proprietary components. But the trend now is now for and
open source operating systems. Data warehouse appliances
promise to increase performance, reduce maintenance cost and
improve scalability. Most appliances provide
parallel data processing and other performance enhancements. To improve both query and
refresh processing. Performance improvements are partially due
to dedicated components and tuning for data warehouse processing without
compromise for other types of processing. Vendors have designed data warehouse
appliances for rapid deployment and transparent operation organizations
who reported lower staffing cost due to less performance tuning and
monitoring. Vendors had designed data
warehouse appliances for scalability with incremental addition
of components as loads increase. Data warehouse appliances have
some potential disadvantages. Using a data warehouse
appliance often means redeploying a data warehouse
to a new environment. Migration costs are potential problem,
although data warehouse appliance vendors provide tools to reduce data
migration difficulties. Query migration may also be required
depending on the level of proprietary SQL used in the current environment. Fixed cost, that is the purchase and lease of data warehouse
appliances can be considerable. Although these costs must be
weighed against cost reductions for improved performance and
lower staffing cost. Data warehouse appliance vendors
emphasize lower cost of ownership, balancing fixed cost against
lower operating cost. The market for data warehouse appliances
provides both complete solutions with both hardware and
software components. In partial solutions,
sometimes known as software appliances, with software components only. Complete solutions are mostly
offered by DBMS vendors, sometimes in cooperation with
particular hardware vendors. For example, Microsoft provides
solutions for both HP and Dell servers packaged with SQL server. Partial solutions are special
purpose to analytical engines for data warehouse processing,
especially data cube operations. Some of the partial solutions
use different database models. Such as column and grid representation, along with
an emphasis on main memory processing. Partial solutions an be combined
with commodity hardware to provide complete solutions for
data warehouse processing. Lesson one began module five
with conceptual material about fiscal design technologies for
data warehouses. You learned about three storage
architectures, MOLAP, ROLAP, and HOLAP, bitmap indexes supporting queries
combining fact and dimension tables, and data warehouse appliances providing
prepackaged solutions of hardware and software. This conceptual material applies
across enterpriseDB messes. In answer to the opening question,
enterprise vendors package data warehouse components into appliances to
simplify deployment by organizations. An organization must
provide infrastructure and staff to host data warehouse appliances,
or outsource these service. In contrast cloud solutions for
data warehouses involve external hosting providing economies of scale
crossed organizations. Generally the same product features are
available in data warehouse appliances and cloud services. The choice between a data warehouse
appliance and cloud solution. Involves different cost structures and
levels of control.