Welcome to Lesson 4 of Module
5 on Physical Design and Governance of Data Warehouses. Let's have some fun learning
about data governance. I'm gonna start with a responsibility
question that I want you to think about throughout this lesson. What involvement does a data warehouse
administrator have in data governance? Lesson 4 extends conceptual background of
big data from Lesson 3 to data governance, an important organizational framework for
data warehouses, operational databases and
other organizational data. Lesson 4 covers motivation and
focus areas of data governance along with components of the prominent
framework for data governance. The coverage in this lesson is conceptual,
applicable to most organizations and data warehouses. You have four learning
objectives in this lesson. To demonstrate general background
about data governance, you should discuss motivations
underlying data governance, provide definitions of data governance,
and identify important focus areas. For details about the Microsoft
data governance framework, you should visualize relationships
among core processes and explain artifacts for
risks and capabilities. Organizations have instituted data
governance initiatives to control risks from external entities and threats
inside and outside an organization. The rapid growth of electronic commerce
and financial scandals in the 2000s propelled major changes in regulatory
oversight and corporate responsibilities. In the USA, the Sarbanes-Oxley Law,
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and the Dodd-Frank Law have added new corporate
responsibilities for data management. The European Union has enacted
broad data privacy directives impacting organizations
with European operations. Major breaches in security and privacy have demonstrated exposure that
organizations have from external threats. A study by the Ponemond Institute in 2008,
found that average loss from a security breach was 6.6 million
dollars with a substantial loss of customers from 3.6 percent to 6%. Numerous surveys have demonstrated that
customers increasingly want assurances about the privacy of their
personal information. Exposure to risks from regulations,
litigation and threats spurred the movement for
data governance. According to the data governance
institute, data governance is the exercise of decision-making and
authority for data-related matters. Data governance attempts to mitigate
risks associated with a complex regulatory environment, information
security, and information privacy, especially for personal, identifiable
data in related business transactions. A second definition by the Data
Management Association, known as DAMA, emphasizes authority and
controlled data assets. Data governance provides a system of
checks and balances to develop data rules and policies, support application
of data rules and policies, and evaluate compliance of data rules and
policies as depicted in this diagram. The system of data governance operates in
a manner similar to the USA government branches, in which the legislative
branch makes laws, the executive branch enforces laws, and the judicial branch resolves disputes
about the meaning and application of laws. Data governance has been applied to
a number of corporate initiatives. Perceived shortcomings in data quality,
especially in attributes impacted by regulations, are primary drivers
of data governance initiatives. For data quality improvements, data
governance initiatives typically focus on development of data quality measures,
reporting the status of data quality, and establishing decision rights and
accountabilities. Mergers and acquisitions often
trigger data governance initiatives to ensure consistent data definitions and integrate corporate policies
involving data privacy and security. Business intelligence developments often
lead to data governance initiatives to establish policies for
data integration, particularly for changes to source data in different
parts of an organization. The Microsoft data governance for
privacy, confidentiality, and compliance, DGPC framework, contains components for
people, processes, and technologies. The people part of the framework involves
a small group of executive management. Providing strategic direction to
a data governance organization, setting policies and
rules applying to data consumers. The process part of the framework
involves processes to establish policies, manage the governance organization,
and implement and monitor controls using appropriate tools. The technology part of the framework
involves infrastructure for identity and access controls, information protection,
and monitoring compliance, controls, and policies. The DGPC framework contains four core management processes to guide
the governance organization. Managing a data governance
organization involves processes for appointing members, defining roles and
responsibilities, creating work groups, and reporting status and performance
of data governance initiatives. Managing requirements involves translating
business strategy into data quality and compliance requirements. And collecting and integrating authority
documents, including regulations, standards and policies. Managing strategies and policies
involves processes to review, approve, publish and implement authority documents. Managing the control environment
involves processes for developing and monitoring controls and using tools to model information
life cycles and technology demands. The DGCP framework provides a risk
gap analysis process that the data governance organization can apply to
identify and resolve gaps of requirements. In the first step the context is
established to define the business purpose in listing the specific privacy,
security, and compliance objectives. In the second step, threats are identified
using threat modeling tools, such as the Microsoft Security
Development Lifecycle Tool. In the third step, risk for each cell
of the risk gap matrix are determined using the security and privacy principles. In the fourth step, risk mitigation techniques are chosen
subject to cost-benefit analysis. In the fifth step, the effectiveness
of mitigation techniques are evaluated using data collected from data consumers. The risk gap analysis matrix, a key
artifact of the risk gap analysis process, combines the information life
cycle in technology domains. The rows of the matrix of
the information lifecycle stages or the columns of the technology domains. The last column is manual controls
not part of technology domains. The cell shows gaps and
measures to protect data and to manage the risk through combinations of
lifecycle activity and security domain. Gap should be evaluated using compliance,
data privacy, and confidentiality principles applicable to
lifecycle's stage and technology domain. To gauge an organization's relative
progress in data governance, the DGPC framework provides the capability
maturity model know as a CMM. The CMM helps organizations
determine their current status, target future status goals, and create
action plans to reach maturity targets. The main art of fact of the CMM
development process is a detailed table with main sections for people,
processes, and technology. Each area is evaluated on the four
maturity levels with capabilities noted as current, planned, in progress,
delivered, and adopted. Lesson 4 concluded Module 5 with
details about data governance. An important management process for
controlling risks associated with data warehouses, operational databases, and
other data managed by an organization. You learned motivations for
data governance, definitions of data governance, and details about the
Microsoft framework for data governance. As a data warehouse administrator or
analyst, you should be aware that business intelligence developments
often lead to data governance initiatives. In answer to the opening question, data warehouse administrators
are usually involved in data governance. Data warehouse administrators
may participate through membership in
the data governance committee in consulting on activities managed
by the data governance committee. Data warehouse managers can be heavily
involved in setting policies for data definitions,
data quality, and controls. In addition, data warehouse
administrators can play a support role to help implement technology aided and
automated controls.