Welcome to relational database support for
data warehouses. The third course in this specialization,
data warehousing for business intelligence. I'm excited to be your instructor for
this course. They will continue your learning
journey about data warehouses. My involvement with database
technology and education spans more than 35 years in academic
positions, consulting, and research. My work in this course is a culmination of
teaching data warehouse development for 15 years. Worth writing a support textbook and
conducting research projects. It's my pleasure and
privilege to share my excitement and extensive background to help you continue
on an adventure towards a rewarding and challenging career as a data warehouse or
business intelligence professional. This course provides
foundational knowledge and skills about DBMS extensions. Query formulation,
summary data management, and data warehouse administration for
your career aspirations. This lesson provides a context for
your effort in this course. You should reflect on this lesson as you
work through the details of this course. Through this lesson, you should gain
a perspective on the position of this course in the specialization. Grasp the target learners for
this course in the specialization. And understand the broad objectives and
prerequisite background for this course. The specialization data warehousing for
business intelligence provides a unified and comprehensive foundation about data
warehousing and business intelligence. The courses in specialization balance
concepts, management practices, t t technology advancements, and technical skills, along with a capstone
course to integrate across courses. This course, the third course in the specialization
builds on the second course. While the second course covers
data warehouse concepts, design, and data integration,
the third course covers implementation and application development. Using relational databases in DBMS's. In addition, the third course presents
important data warehouse administration topics to augment the concepts
covered in course two. The specialization targets students and
working professionals who aspire for careers in data warehouses and
business intelligence. These careers require background about
DBMS extensions query formulation, summary data management, and
data warehouse administration. This third course provides
this essential background for targeted learners including university
students with an interest in computing, information technology professionals,
project managers with an interest in business intelligence and
business analysts. This course provides a foundation
of data warehouse background for a career in data warehousing and
business intelligence. You will understand conceptual
background about query formulation, summary data management, and
physical data warehouse design. You will develop skills to write
queries using extended parts of SQL for sub totals and analytical calculations as well as perform query re-writing using
materialized views and user queries. You will gain insights about important
data warehouse administration practices for evaluating big data opportunities in
initiating a data governance practice. Through mastery of data warehouse concepts
and skills, is reflect on guidelines and query formulation, materialized
view design and data governance. This course requires concepts and skills
taugght in instructive database course in the previous course and specialization. The first course in a specialization
provides the prerequisite database background about the relational model,
data modeling, query formulation using joins and grouping
operations, and relational DBMS usage. You need background from the second
course in a specialization about data warehouse concepts, schema
patterns and data integration concepts. The third course in specialization is the
second course with data warehouse specific content. This course provides a balanced coverage
about relational database usage for implementing and developing
applications for data warehouses. You'll develop skills to formulate
queries and perform query writing. As well as learn about data warehouse
administration concepts and practices. You will utilize these skills in
the Capstone course, providing a realistic case study about building a data
warehouse for business intelligence. This course provides
an essential foundation. For your journey towards a challenging and
rewarding career as a data warehouse or business intelligence professional.