Welcome to lesson three of Module 3
on the Oracle SQL Analytic Functions. Let's expand our fun
with Analytic Functions. I’m gonna start with an important
motivational question that I want you to think about throughout this lesson. Without analytic function extensions
in SQL, is application development for window comparisons more difficult
than application development for ranking functions? Lesson three extends the introductory
presentations of analytic functions from lessons one and two. Lesson three covers concepts and
extended syntax for window comparisons. You will learn to write select statements
with physical window specifications for cumulative window calculations. Although the coverage in this
module is specific to Oracle SQL, other enterprise DBSs
provide similar capabilities. You have three learning
objectives in this lesson. Before writing statements, you need to
understand window concepts and syntax. As the primary goal, you should be ready
to write SELECT statements that perform cumulative window calculations. As a reflective goal, you should think
about the importance of query language support for window comparisons. Business intelligence applications for
financial analysis and forecasting typically
use window comparisons. Window comparisons involve changes in
numeric variables, such as sales or stock prices,
in sets of rows known as windows. Windows are typically defined by time
intervals, such as years or months. Typical examples of Window comparisons
are 90 day moving average of stock prices, percentage sales growth, performance of an
advertising campaign over recent months, and cumulative sales performance for
various organizational units. SQL statement extensions to
support window comparisons provides easier application development
with a reduced skill-set, increased software development productivity,
and improved execution performance. Before studying syntax and examples, you
should understand basic window concepts. A window is a collection of rows in
which a numeric function is calculated. A window can be specified in units of
physical rows using a ROWS keyword, or logical rows using a RANGE keyword. Logical windows are specified by values,
such as the number of days. In this lesson,
you will learn about physical windows. Numeric variables are calculated
in moving windows so the variables can be
compared across windows. A cumulative window is fixed on one end,
typically the beginning, and changes on the other end. A sliding window changes on both ends. In this lesson,
you will learn about cumulative windows. Windows specification after
ordering is optional for analytic functions as noted
in the syntax specification. Common aggregate functions,
such as avg for average, sum, count, min, max, and variance,
can be used with a windows specification. The Oracle documentation provides
a complete list of aggregate functions that can be used with
a windows specification. A windows specification,
beginning with the ROWS keyword, indicates a physical window. For example, ROWS UNBOUNDED PRECEDING
indicates a window of the current row and all preceding rows. ROWS 2 PRECEDING indicates the current
row and the two previous rows. ROWS 3 FOLLOWING indicates the current
row and the next three rows. Logical window specifications
will be presented in lesson four. This diagram depicts
a cumulative physical window specified as ROWS UNBOUNDED PRECEDING. Initially, the window
is just a single row. When processing the second row, the window
is the current row that is the second row in the previous row that is the first row. This diagram shows the window for
the fifth row comprising the current row, that is row five, and the previous rows,
that is rows one to four. The arrow indicates a direction
of movement from the first row towards the last physical row. For each window, an aggregate function,
such as sum is calculated. Example one demonstrates a cumulative
physical window using the sum function. The SELECT statement calculates the
cumulative sum of dollar sales by zip code and year over the entire
result without partitioning. The Windows specification,
ROWS UNBOUNDED PRECEDING, indicates a cumulative physical window. Note that the window calculations involves
a sum of the sum of dollar sales. Processing the GROUP BY clause
calculates a sum of dollar sales. So analytic function processing just
calculates the cumulative sum of sales. For clarity, the result contains
both a sum of sales and a cumulative sum of sales. I will now execute this statement
using the Oracle SQL developer. The result contains 12 rows
with four columns in each row. Note that the last column, that is
CUMSUMSALES, is calculated as the current sum of sales plus the sum of
sales in all previous rows. Thus the cumulative sum of
sales in the second row, that is 181,544,
is the sum of sales 91,972. Plus the cumulative sum of sales
in the first row is 89,572. I encourage you to verify
other calculations yourself. Example two extends example
one's partitioning. The select statement calculates
the cumulative sum of dollar sales by zip code and year over partitions
of store zip code values. The partition clause with
the partition by keywords indicates that the window calculation
restarts for each zip code value. The window specification
ROWS UNBOUNDED PRECEDING indicates a cumulative physical window. I will now execute this statement
using the Oracle SQL developer. The result contains 12 rows
with four columns in each row. Note that the cumulative sum of sales
column restarts when the zip code changes. For example, the zip code 80129-5543
changes in the fifth row, so that the cumulative sum of sales is just
the sum of sales, 92,360 in the fifth row. I encourage you to verify
other calculations yourself. You should now be ready to write SELECT
statements for some additional problems. In Example 3, you should write a SELECT
statement to calculate the cumulative sum of 2010 sales by item brand and
month with partitioning by item brand. The results should show the item brand,
month, sum of sales, and cumulative sum of sales. In Example 4, you should write a select
statement to calculate the cumulative sum of sales by year and
item brand with partitioning by year. Only include brands with more
than five sales in a year. The result should show the year,
item brand, count, sum of sales, and cumulative sum of sales. You can find the solutions
in a module 3 document. This lesson extended your
background about analytic functions from lessons one and two. Lesson three covered basic
details about SQL extensions for window comparisons important for
business intelligence applications. These SQL extensions provide increased
software development productivity and improved performance. You learned about extended syntax and
examples for evaluation of analytic functions over cumulative physical
windows, specified using the ROWS keyword. You're encouraged to write
SELECT statements for the practice problems to apply
the details of the lesson. In answer to the opening question,
application development is more difficult for window comparisons than ranking
functions without an SQL extension for analytic functions. Window comparisons involve
dynamic windows that move, whereas ranking functions
involve static windows. Thus, SQL statements without analytic
functions are more difficult to write for window comparisons than ranking functions. Without analytic function extensions,
only database analysts with high levels of skills could write SQL
statements for window comparisons. In addition, window comparisons involve
more complex SQL statement processing and optimization than ranking functions.